This is my design
=================

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/design.png

This is a sequel to the `last post`_ about Britain's relationship with
the EU. That ended with the conclusion that "However, we will leave in
the end, it is just a matter of time, and we will not be the only
ones."

Little did I know that the people of Britain were already there ahead
of me. When the BBC's coverage started under Britain's leading
presenter, the great David Dimbleby. It seemed that the Remain side
was going to cruise home.

I thought, okay a noble fight, we made a point, but the forces of
multi-national capitalism were overwhelming. So I went to bed. After
all the two campaigns were not equal.

A lop sided campaign
--------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/scales.png

The Remain side had all the forces of multi-national neo-liberal
capitalism, the banks, the European Commission as well as implicit
support from the supposedly independent Bank of England who popped up
occasionally with helpful statistics and reports.

A lot of people do their duty as citizens and vote, but are not really
interested in politics. They have enough on their plate with work and
family etc. These people were always likely to do what they were told
by the political leaders and also are biased towards the status quo.

The British government spent Â£9 million on posting a Remain booklet to
every house in the UK, a benefit that the Leave side did not get. We
also had the Prime Minister and the leadership of the other mainstream
parties like Labour, SNP and Greens supporting Remain.

The support of the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was particularly
difficult as the traditional left wing position in Britain is to be
against the EU. The 1975 referendum, the No campaign was led by the
main Labour figures of the day Michael Foot, Tony Benn and Barbara
Castle.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/corbyn2.png

Jeremy Corbyn was a well known eurosceptic but as the leader of the
Labour party, whose MPs were mostly elected during the Blair years and
thus are mostly right wing, he was in a bit of a difficult
situation. So he did his duty as party leader and represented the
party line, appearing at events all across the country for Remain.

He did however refuse to make any out and out lies, and so when
cornered with a particularly forensic question, the truthful answer
was not always the most politically helpful answer for the Remain
side.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/corbyn.png

The mainstream media were very pro-remain at first, especially the
publicly owned TV stations like the BBC and Channel 4, but the
newspapers started to drift away, even the Guardian started featuring
a few pro-leave articles in the last week or so of the campaign.

Moving from one newspaper to another is a matter of moving your hands
a few centimetres, so British newspapers do tend to reflect the views
of their readers to a certain extent, despite the owners tending to be
pro-Remain.

How to get someone out of bed
-----------------------------

However, after a few hours of occasionally checking my phone in a
sleepy haze. Something was happening. Was I dreaming it?

Area after area went for Leave. London and its little spider legs of
wealth around London were going for Remain, as was Scotland, but the
rest of England and Wales mostly voted for Leave.

I decided to get back out of bed, go back downstairs and wait for the
Birmingham result. 

Birmingham is for leave
-----------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/selfridges.jpg

Britain's second largest city, Birmingham is not some twee ancient
town like the nearby Anglo-Saxon capital of Tamworth (see last
post). Birmingham is a child of the industrial revolution and the
Empire (also see `last post`_) with the major expansion of the city in
the 1800s and early 1900s. Birmingham is a beautiful city, as long as
you like Brutalist and Modern architecture.

Birmingham is somewhere between 45% and 50% "White British" (this
weird term is the designation the government uses), it isn't the most
diverse city, which is Leicester and some the cities of the North but
it is the one I live in and know best.

The different races of Birmingham mostly get on very well, the city's
signature dish is the Balti and the civic institutions put on events
that reflect the city's diverse cultural backgrounds but are open to
all.

It is a Labour city. The right wing parties barely make a foothold,
there is no UKIP presence to speak of. There are 9 Labour MPs and just
one Tory MP in the outer suburb town of Sutton Coldfield, which
doesn't even consider itself part of Birmingham.

Birmingham with its 700,000 registered voters in the main city area,
was expected to be a big remain landslide. When the result came it was
50.1% for Leave.

When you go through the posher areas of Birmingham, there were loads
of Remain posters on many of the large expensive houses, so it is not
mathematically possible or likely that all the votes to Leave were
from "White British". So the Black and Asian voters of Birmingham were
split in the same way as the white voters, or at least enough to put
Leave over the top.

The question that Remain will never answer
------------------------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/silence.jpg

I focused `last post`_ on the successful non-EU immigration that the UK
has had, and a good proportion of them seem to have gone for Leave, as
I thought they would. One of the questions I posed in my `last post`_ can
be summed up as follows:

Why should a Bulgarian be able to bring their family to the UK and
trade freely, but an immigrant from India cannot?

Despite being posed many times by Leave, this question was never
answered by the Remain side. Therefore, the Black and Asian vote split
and the Leave side benefited from a million or two more votes
nationally, which is of course a winning difference.

Why didn't Remain field an answer? For four reasons I think.

Little Europeans
----------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/football.jpg

Firstly, is the 'little Europeans' issue I talked about in the last
post, the culture of the EU is about middle class White-European
people flying about between cities on expenses. Britain has a
Commonwealth history making us look at the world, a lot of Europe does
not.

Those Britons most in support of Europe tend to have this identity
also. The idea that people from outside the EU such as Africans or
Indians are equal to Europeans, and therefore the system should
reflect that, just doesn't occur to them while hidden inside the walls
of fortress Europe. We might as well be talking Klingon for all the
good it does. There is just not the mental framework there to get it.

Remain also just assumed that all non-"White British" were theirs by
right and they did not have to work for it. The idea that Asian or
Black voters would have independent ideas and issues that should be
considered did not seem to be considered by Remain.

Secondly, the Remain side I think made a tactical decision not to
answer the question. They thought saying something like immigration is
good, we should open our borders to the Commonwealth too, but we are
not going to control EU migration at all to compensate, would push
more people to the Leave side.

Top down Remain, bottom up Leave
--------------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/george.jpg

Thirdly, because the Remain side inherited the infrastructure of the
Labour and Tory parties, they followed a lot of top-down practices
that made sense in a constituency first-past the post based system. So
they sought to get a simple majority in each area, rather than
focusing on total number of votes. They assumed that most Midland and
Northern cities as well as Wales, would overall go for Remain so
didn't put any real effort into those areas.

Meanwhile the Leave campaign, short of financial resources, had to run
a grass roots, bottom up campaign. They found out the questions
putting people off Leave and had to come up with some kind of answer
to the questions.

Meanwhile, several Unions like the RMT, ASLEF and BFAWU; left-wing
anti-establishment figures like George Galloway and Julian Assange, as
well as the socialist worker and many others, were rallying the
non-mainstream media, blogs, and social networks to the Leave side.

How to brainwash yourself
-------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/godzilla.png

The forth reason is connected to the last part, and the most important
issue and this is a wider reason to why Remain lost. They believed
their own propaganda, they brainwashed themselves. Believing that
there were no valid reasons want Leave apart from to control
immigration, they didn't field any answers to the questions being
raised.

Remain just focused on two messages:

* Project Fear - leaving the EU would be the end of the world.  The
  Chancellor George Osborne, previously featured on this blog, the one
  that likes to take money from disabled people and give it as tax
  breaks to billionaires; he made a much lampooned threat of an
  emergency budget requiring massive tax rises and spending
  cuts.

  Meanwhile there was the even more preposterous argument that the UK
  leaving the EU would be the end of peace in Europe. I don't even
  know what this means. Are Germany going to restart the blitz and
  rain down bombs on our heads? Is the UK going to gather an army of
  longbowmen and retake Agincourt? What a lot of utter nonsense.

* Project Sneer - anyone who is for leaving the EU is a racist Nazi
  who wants to round up immigrants and throw them into the
  sea. Equally stupid. We will talk about this again shortly.

While immigration was an issue of course, the Leave campaign also
focused on many issues that were not immigration including:

* TTIP which does actually include healthcare and results in the break
  up of the NHS and private health insurance from American companies
* The issue of little-Europeanism/racism we just talked about
* The fortress Europe that makes it difficult to trade with non-EU
  countries which are the growing part of the world.
* The lack of democracy in the European institutions. Only the
  Commission can introduce laws and repeal laws. The elected European
  Parliament can just discuss them. It has about us much power as the
  fantastic UK youth parliament where school children go into the
  house of parliament and discuss laws.
* The focus on complex regulations instead of Common Law
* The economic and social punishment given by the EU to Greece (see `last post`_)
* Unemployment levels on the Continent.
* You could go on and on.
* The way the EU's Thatcherite policies help distort the allocation of
  resources towards London and the Financial sector and away from
  manufacturing and wider England.

Birmingham is a traditional capital of manufacturing, and still has
the productive capacity hanging on for when Britain starts depending
on making and selling things, rather than relying on financial scams
for its national income.

I wonder if this had a lot to do with why Wales voted Leave. The EU is
keen to spend our money on museums, University buildings, and so
on. But anything that might give areas like Birmingham or Wales a
competitive manufacturing advantage is not allowed. Just look what
happened recently to the Port Talbot Steelworks, EU regulations
stopped the government from acting to save this vital national
resource from Chinese steel dumping; steel is the foundation of
national defence after all.

Echo chamber
------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/brainwash.jpg

The Remain side acted like an echo chamber. Its core message of
sneering at everyone that is not an EU-supporting cultural liberal
from Cambridge or London cost it dearly. The remain side followed its
own supporters on social networks, it did not engage with the
non-mainstream media of right or left, it did not go out and listen to
people's reasons for Leave and provide an appropriate response.

Therefore they lost.

Ignoring the merits of the argument for a moment, the Remain campaign,
despite every possible advantage, managed to misstep at every possible
moment. From Osborne's terror budget to trying to make political
capital out of the tragic death of an MP, there was not much
self-awareness.

Piling on the war monger Tony Blair and everyone responsible for the
2008 crash did not improve their credibility.

Consumers in denial
-------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/consumer.png

When the result came, many tears were cried and much gnashing of teeth
by Remain supporters.

Several days on, the vestiges of Remain support are still in full on
denial. By not listening to voters in England and Wales outside London
and its small tentacles into the home counties and the University
cities of Oxford and Cambridge, they were totally dumbfounded that the
country voted against them.

Democracy is not about ordering a policy like a pair of shoes from
Amazon. You have to listen, you have to engage, you have to convince
people that are not like yourself, you have to build a coalition of
support.

Mocking people and blocking people on Twitter does not constitute
productive debate. Calling people racists or stupid does not move them
into your camp.

Second Referendum
-----------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/fleshwound.jpg

The biggest joke of all is the idea of a second referendum. The people
who did not and will not listen want to have another vote and
keep having them until they get the result they want.

The Leave side had to wait over 40 years for a referendum. The Remain
side want one tomorrow.

This will not work.

Firstly, this referendum was extremely expensive in staff costs, venue
costs and lost productivity as schools and other public buildings are
closed. All elections are expensive and take a long time to
organise. Being based on the popular vote, it is a bit more
complicated than the normal constituency system that we are geared up
for. Normally there are lots of safe seats that never change and have
massive winning margins that don't really require much precision or
huge amounts of staff.

Secondly, a lot of advantages the remain side had will no longer exist:

* David Cameron quit and there will be no pro-remain Prime Minister
  again leading the charge and offering potential promotions and
  knighthoods etc for those on his/her side.

* Everyone is knackered. Labour and the Unions spent all their
  campaign budgets and desperately need to save cash, energy and
  volunteers for the next set of local elections and a possible snap
  general election. Campaigners from other institutions like NGOs and
  companies need to go back to their real jobs.

* Project Fear is over, the British public already voted out and are
  no longer scared. Those who felt they had to ignore their heart will
  not need to do so again.

* Project Sneer is ineffective because anyone previously scared of
  talking about being out for fear of being seen as a racist or UKIP
  supporter, has nothing to fear as they are with the majority 52% and
  rising.

* Any new referendum will be from the outside. The status quo will be
  for remain out. The only people still for out will be a coalition of
  cultural liberals and dodgy bankers.

* The EU has had enough of us. When they say Britain is toxic and
  causes contagion, it means that other countries want the special
  deals we have had like vetos, partial rebate, no Schengen, no
  Euro. They think the sooner we nasty Island hobbits are at arms
  length, the longer they can keep the EU from collapsing. They are
  deluded of course, but that is a discussion for another post.

* Events - lots of nasty crap is coming down the pipe for Europe, it
  will look more unattractive as time goes on. Also other countries
  may leave.

* Demographics - Non-EU migrants have the highest birth rate. So as
  the years go on, ignoring the world outside and the issues we talked
  about above becomes more untenable.

* No More Patronage - the UK will now need its own systems for funding
  Universities, research, regional development, farming, etc. People
  will adapt to them and will no longer feel tied to Europe by an
  umbilical cord of funding.

* Progressive policies - the UK will increasingly find solutions that
  are not legal or tenable in the EU. Rail nationalisation, student
  scholarships, NHS re-nationalisation and so on. Once setup, they
  will act us as a permanent lock keeping us out of the EU.
  
If we run the referendum again, it will just be embarrassing. Leave
will get 70%, or maybe much more, if we are already out then 80% or
90% I can totally believe. We need to save our fellow citizens from
self-harm and mental anguish and just say no to that.

This is my design
-----------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/chickens.jpg

I don't deny that Leave vote had white bigots, but it also had
socialists (like me) and a good amount of BME population outside
London.

In any case, the past is the past, we are on the way out.

The far right bigots will get a shock when it finds that the
independent UK actually increases immigration as it booms free of the
EU. This time our immigration policy can be race and nationality
blind, allowing the whole world to come here on an equal basis,
especially the Commonwealth countries who sent 4 million of their
citizens to fight and die alongside us in World War II and whom we
have treated terribly since.

I love Europe, I just don't like the centralised Roman Empire style
state (see `last post`_). I want the UK to engage with the EU countries
on a bi-lateral basis, and on the level of people and companies, as a
real union of peoples, not a neoliberal cage where everything has to
go via a centralised Brussels bureaucracy. I also want the UK to lift
its eyes and interact with the wider world.

This is our chance to do things differently. As we replace EU run
areas with local ones, we can upgrade them with modern values and
technology.

Our farming and fishing policies can have the greatest environmental
standards in the world. We can finally ban battery chickens and give
incentives for Organic food. We can stop the nonsense of paying people
not to produce food and instead pay them to upgrade their animal
welfare and environmental standards.

Our research policy can focus on devolving funding to the Universities
themselves, trusting them to invest in long term research
projects. Get the professors back in the lab and the lecturers back in
the classroom, rather than making them spend all their time bidding
for short-term grants.

We can return to making and not depend on the financial scams for our
national income.

We can increase the minimum wage to a real living wage and thus
encourage the use of automation, machines and robots (see end of last
post).

The excuse in the past was that if we could not give our young people
full scholarships to University, because it would be untenable to
offer them to the whole EU. Now there is no excuse, we should give all
young people a scholarship so they begin their careers with skills and
knowledge not debt.

Boris' Britain
--------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/this_is_my_design/debate.jpg

Birmingham's own Giesla Stewart was the voice of reason in this
campaign and the official leader of the Leave campaign. Giesla had a
good campaign and did very well. However, the mainstream media only
wanted to show Boris.

I must admit Boris also had a good campaign. He didn't make any gaffs
and he looked like a leader, he stood up and took the incoming flack
from Remain and effortlessly outflanked his Tory opponents by pivoting
to the left when required. He seemed very comfortable and
statesmanlike sharing cross-party platforms with Labour Leave figures
such as Gielsa, Kate Hoey and others.

Meanwhile David Cameron refused to debate his opponents and looked like he
was afraid. The remain side didn't manage to combine the two campaigns
very well.

Boris is going to win the Tory leadership, it will probably seem like
a coronation, then he will try to bounce a snap election and get a
strong mandate and he may win.

The left need to stop moping over the UK's European exit and unite or
Boris will get a landslide.

We can make the progressive case and win the next election. We can
stop Boris's Britain and make Britain a progressive country once
again.

.. _`last post`: https://zeth.net/2016/06/20/rome_vs_the_matrix.html



.. author:: default
.. categories:: none
.. tags:: brexit, civic
.. comments::
