Brexit means decolonisation
===========================

.. image:: /newimages/posts/brexit_means_decolonisation/ecj.png

The EU's position paper called `Essential Principles on Citizens' Rights`_
demands, among other things, that:

    The Commission should have full powers for the monitoring and the
    Court of Justice of the European Union should have full jurisdiction
    corresponding to the duration of the protection of citizen's rights in
    the Withdrawal agreement.

If the ECJ can be an mediator in every interaction the UK government
or a company has with an EU citizen, then we will still have no
ability to fix any of the pressing issues facing this country,
including the still unresolved causes of the 2008 crash. Every
government policy has winners and losers. Every bad policy has some
corner-case where someone benefits from it.

With 3 million or more EU citizens, any issue can be turned into an
issue affecting an EU citizen providing forum shopping and then the EU
law will apply.

The idea of everyone being equal before the common law and that UK
judges are trusted to apply it is anathema to the EU’s Napoleonic
position that only the ECJ can be trusted to protect EU citizens.

This is really a “special interest”/“closed shop” self serving
argument, if national courts can be trusted, there is no point to the
EU. To protect its own need to exist, the EU has to insert itself into
everything, even if it is not needed.

The US Supreme Court doesn't need to interfere if an American citizen
resident in the UK has a problem with a public institution or company,
that American just uses the normal UK courts to plead their case.

The UK has residents who hail from the whole world including millions
of citizens from the other 169 countries in the world that are not in
the EU. They manage quite fine to use the existing UK Courts. They
don't need their legal systems to intervene in British law.

Note there is no reciprocal right in the proposal for British citizens
living in the EU to call for assistance from the British courts.

This whole lop-sided proposal shows how the Euro-federalists see the
UK as a difficult colony, not as an independent country or let alone
as an equal partner.

Staying under the law of the EU is not Brexit, we would have just
moved from a colony with very little say of how we are governed to a
colony with no say over how we are governed.

It is not the independent country that people voted for.

.. _`Essential Principles on Citizens' Rights`: https://ec.europa.eu/commission/sites/beta-political/files/essential-principles-citizens-rights_en_0.pdf

.. author:: default
.. categories:: none
.. tags:: civic
.. comments::
