Time to put away the student politics
=====================================

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/falklands3.jpg

Those who resort to violence, always lose their claim
-----------------------------------------------------

After the 18th and 19th centuries, there were many competing
territorial claims over former Prussia; Germany had some valid and
some not so valid claims, as did other countries. Going to war (twice)
over the claims was not valid however.

It is a long standing and basic principle of world order that
the belligerent aggressor loses whatever claims they had. Now of
course Germany is a peaceful and wonderful country and also makes no
claim to any of these areas.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/germany.jpg

Whatever the right or wrongs of the Falklands issue were before 1982,
once Argentina invaded and spilt British blood, they lost any claim to
the islands; it is just how it goes.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/falklands2.jpg

It is also an issue of basic democracy that as recently as 2013, the
Falkland Islanders had a referendum with a turnout of 91.94%, where
99.8% voted not to change the Islands' status in anyway. The results
of referendums must be respected, especially with such a high turnout.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/falklands.jpg

There is also the practical matter that saying anything different will
be a sure loser in British election.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/israel4.jpg

Likewise, the question of whether making the state of Israel was the
correct response to the evil of the holocaust, became a non-issue
after 1967. Israel did not start the war, the Arabs did, but the
Israelis won the war and the issue was settled.

Any claims the Arabs had over the land was lost then. You don't get to
claim territory through starting wars, you must only lose by starting
wars.

Time to boycott calling for boycotts
------------------------------------

Even if you disagree with Israel's policies, collective punishment
against its citizens can have no practical effect on those policies.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/israel3-small.jpg

Dis-inviting an innocent academic from a conference, will not change
policy. A professor of Artificial Intelligence or Manuscript Studies
(made up examples for the sake of argument) does not set Israeli
security or foreign policy.

If a UK institution chose an Israeli company to provide a product, it
did so based on price and quality. Pressuring an institution to
boycott the Israeli company will just make innocent workers there
poorer and will mean the UK institution will get a higher priced
and/or lower quality good. An orange juice producer or a software
company does not set Israeli security or foreign policy.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/israel5.jpg

The same principle applies to exports. Pressuring a UK company to not
sell products to Israel, tractors for example, will not change a
single Israeli policy. It will just mean they buy a tractor from
someone else and workers in the UK have less jobs making tractors.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/israel2.jpg

Discretion is the better part of valour
---------------------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/beach.jpg

The sad truth is that there is nothing the UK can usefully do to make
peace in the middle east. Tony Blair of all people tried to be a peace
envoy and yet there is still no peace.

Any politicians that want to pander to either Muslim or Jewish voters
by taking a side are just being dishonest with the voters. The UK just
has no leverage on either side. The Middle East is just not a part of
the world that cares what Britain thinks one way or the other.

Our winning strategy as a country is not to pick sides and just be a
friend to everyone, and of course, sell them all our goods and
services.

By the way, America has far more clout, expertise and money and still
has not made much progress either but that is another story.

Yes there are poor and suffering people in the Middle East, but there
are poor and suffering people everywhere so we should focus on areas
where we are wanted and we can have a meaningful impact, such as
African free trade and development which we have ignored for too long.

It is not our fight
-------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/surf.jpg

So it total baffles me why Palestinian liberation or Latin American
politics are cause celebres on the UK left. There are no votes to be
won here.

We talked before about the difference between few hundred thousand
people in the UK who have strong political views and the
`millions who just want cake`_.

The average British voter does not care a monkeys about Palestine or
improving Anglo-Argentinean relations and just wants to hear domestic
policies.

It seems like Jeremy Corbyn is wise enough to know that there is a
difference in being a backbench MP who can obsess about these obscure
issues and a potential Prime Minister who needs to have total clarity
and focus to cut through a hostile media. I hope so anyway.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/put_away_the_student_politics/israel.jpg

.. _`millions who just want cake`: https://zeth.net/2016/08/02/let_them_eat_cake.html


.. author:: default
.. categories:: none
.. tags:: civic
.. comments::
