Hope Wins over Fear
===================

.. image:: /newimages/posts/hope_wins/lloyd.jpg

In the midst of a larger post about the results of the EU referendum,
I talked about the `echo chamber`_ in the campaign. I want to explore
that a tiny bit more.

You also may remember that in a post before the referendum, I talked
about myself as an undergraduate and how I was `very passionately
pro-EU`_ but over time, the doubts set in, especially after the crash
in 2008 and the EU's harsh measures metered out to Greece.

As I started 2016, the doubts and problems with the EU had not yet
pushed me into the idea that the UK should ever leave the EU; I
started 2016 as a reluctant but firm 'remanian'.

However, I wanted to make the decision based on all the information
and up to date arguments. I turned to other people, both on Twitter
and in the real world.

I soon ran into a problem, even discussing my own doubts was beyond
the pale with anyone pro-EU, you must support the EU because that is
what you do. 

On Twitter it was worse, loudly unfollowed by 20-30 people, regularly
blocked in the middle of a seemingly civil discussion over a technical
EU matter.

.. image:: /newimages/posts/hope_wins/gollum.jpg

I was shocked the first time, saddened the second time, third time it
was water off a duck's back, I stopped noticing or caring when someone
threw their toys out of the pram.

I did try to carrying on to discuss with any remainian who wanted to,
in the hope they would come up with the magic argument that would put
me squarely back in the remain camp. It soon became apparent that
everyone else has the same doubts and concerns.

Unlike ten years ago where you could easily encounter British
Europhiles who wanted to join the Euro and the Schengen Area and so
on, now ardent Europhiles seem a bit thin on the ground.

I met no-one that had a positive view of the EU as a force that will
make things better, it was just what you did about the faults, whether
you just lived with them in a fatalistic fashion or tried to face up
to them by leaving (and potentially making a lot of new
issues/opportunities).

A lot of the remain argument was that uneducated and poor people want
to leave, so don't be in that group since they are all racists and
bigots. Well I was brought up in very modest circumstances indeed and
these are my people and I don't recognise that description.

Meanwhile, the leavers were just more fun and upbeat people. They were
happy to listen, discuss and gently point out their views.

I guess the morals of the story are that if you want to campaign for
something, have the most hopeful message. Even if you are against
something, have the best plan for fixing or replacing or leaving it
behind. Blocking people doesn't win votes in real elections.

Above all, the moral is Twitter is probably a crap place for
discussing politics.

.. _`very passionately pro-EU`: https://zeth.net/2016/06/20/rome_vs_the_matrix.html#party1999
.. _`echo chamber`: https://zeth.net/2016/06/25/this_is_my_design.html#echo-chamber


.. author:: default
.. categories:: none
.. tags:: civic
.. comments::
