Three Crunchbang Linux Tips
===========================

.. image:: /newimages/posts/crunchbang_linux_tips/debian-bulbs-by-omns.png
    :alt: Image of Debian swirls in black and grey

As `talked about previously`_, my main computers currently have the
Crunchbang Linux distribution, which is a version of Debian GNU/Linux
using the Openbox window manager.

.. _`talked about previously`: http://zeth.net/2014/01/10/crunchbang.html

These tips might also be useful for some other Debian or Ubuntu based
systems.

Setting the keymap for an Apple keyboard
----------------------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/crunchbang_linux_tips/A1048_british_apple_keyboard.jpg
    :alt: Image of Apple Keyboard with big keys

While laptops might need flat keys for portability (though I might
argue the point), I hate typing on them. I like full-sized keys, not
flaccid little flat ones.

I once bought an Apple Mac G4, I don't use it anymore but I still use
the keyboard I bought for it. Using Linux, it is not too much of a
problem just to use the IBM layout without (i.e. remembering that the
double quote mark is above the 2 key for example) but it is worth
setting it properly in case someone else needs to use my computer.

I also have an Apple Macbook Pro laptop for work reasons which also
has the same key layout.

Anyway, I edited the file called /etc/default/keyboard and set the
following option::

    XKBVARIANT="mac"

I am in Great Britain, so I also need to be sure that the following
option is set:

    XKBLAYOUT="gb"

Maybe there was a way to change this using a graphical tool, but this
way worked.


Creating screen layouts with ARandR
-----------------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/crunchbang_linux_tips/arandr.png
    :alt: Image of ARandR Screen Layout Editor programme

ARandR Screen Layout Editor is a wonderful tool for setting up your
monitors.  You can drag them around, change the resolution and rotate
them in order to create your perfect screen layout.

To save the configuration, click on 'Layout' then 'Save As' to save a
particular configuration.

You can reload this configuration within the program, but the
configuration file is itself a simple shell script (which calls xrandr
with arguments representing what you have picked in the GUI).

So to automatically configure your screen layout when the graphical
session first starts, you can append the script to the file::

    ~/.config/openbox/autostart
  
The fact that a configuration is just a shell script means you can
easily have multiple layouts for different situations, and either call
them yourself on the command line, assign desktop shortcuts or use
other tools to call them, e.g.  you can use cron to change the screen
configuration at a certain time or write an upstart/systemd script to
execute it based on some system event etc.

Dealing with not-found commands
-------------------------------

.. image:: /newimages/posts/crunchbang_linux_tips/tuxsmash.png
    :alt: Image of glass smashing with Linux penguin looking through

When using the command line in Ubuntu, if you try to call a
command/program that has not been installed, it says something like::

    The program 'tuxpaint' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
    sudo apt-get install tuxpaint

Here is a more complicated example::

    The program 'a2ensite' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
    sudo apt-get install apache2.2-common

What actually happens here is a Python script appropriately named
command-not-found is called which then looks up what package is needed
to run the program.

If you want the same behaviour on Crunchbang, just do::

    sudo apt-get install command-not-found

The problem with this utility on older hardware is when you
accidentally make a typo that is actually a valid command somewhere,
you get a second or so delay while it searches Apt's cache, which
could get annoying quite quickly.

If you want to search for a particular package, you can just use the
pre-installed apt-cache command, e.g.::

    sudo apt-cache search tuxpaint

All the packages to do with tuxpaint are listed in the
terminal. However, this does not go down to the file level like
command-not-found does. For example, the other example of a2ensite
finds nothing::

    sudo apt-cache search a2ensite

I don't know a way of searching for a package by command using the
stock Crunchbang install. However, you can install the apt-file
package, which allows searches like::

    apt-file search filename

.. author:: default
.. categories:: crunchbang, linux, notetoself, tips
.. tags:: craft
.. comments::
